docs: update current release processes (#6203)
urbit/urbit: CONTRIBUTING.md

on having created a complicated or unusual state, or can otherwise simply be
difficult to trigger again.

Your issue should thus at a minimum be *informative*.  The best advice here is
probably "don't write bad issues," where "bad" is a matter of judgment and
taste.  Issues that the maintainers don't judge to be sufficiently useful or
informative may be closed.

Feature requests are welcome, but they should include sufficient detail and
explanation, as well as a discussion of perceived benefits one could expect from
them.  "It would be cool if.." probably does not, in itself, constitute a good
feature request; instead, try to be specific about what you're requesting, and
what your desired feature would accomplish.

### Feature Branch Names

Every branch that you intend to put up for review must adhere to the form
`i/<N>/<...>`, where `<N>` is the number of the issue that the branch
corresponds to and `<...>` is an optional short description of the branch to aid
in readability. If `<...>` is omitted, the `/` should be omitted as well, which
makes `i/<N>` a well-formed branch name. These feature branches should be based

> off of `develop`.

Reviewer: As mentioned out of band, not a huge fan of this. I could be convinced otherwise, but presently unclear what this gains us over "post the branch name to the issue when work has started", while adding the cost of more difficult to remember/work with branch names. Do we really care that much about having branch->issue lookup?

Author: I think this is actually important. It does two things, it forces an issue to exist in order to adhere to the branch naming spec and it makes it obvious what the branch is for that issue (can tab complete). CC @mcevoypeter who came up with the idea.

will never make for pleasant bedtime reading, so focus instead on making your

> commits useful for tools like `git-blame` and `git-bisect`.

Reviewer: Potentially worth adding here that it's highly desirable for every individual commit to at least be in a compiling & run-able state. Obviously-broken "wip" commits should be discouraged.

Your contribution must apply cleanly to `develop` in order to be considered
mergeable.  You may want to regularly [rebase your changes][reba] onto
`develop` in order to both clean up any intermediate "development" commits you
make and to ensure that you're up to date.

### Pull Requests and Merges

When your work is ready for review, open a pull request, making sure to link to
the tracking issue in the description, which should be formatted as follows
(where `<N>` is the number of this work's tracking issue):

```

> ### Description

Reviewer: This header is superfluous, since you're already writing into the PR description field.

With that, only the "Related" header remains, which seems optional to me, and might also be served by a more modest "See also:" at the start of a new paragraph.

I'd consider putting "resolves #n" at the bottom instead of leading with it, since it's mostly administrative, but this seems more like a personal preference thing.

Author: +1 on headers, I think link at the top is good though

Author: One nice thing about the header is I think I can set defaults for text fields. Makes it more obvious what's required (and the rendered headers look nice in the field, like in this PR for example).

Reviewer: fwiw I personally always bounce super hard on pre-filled PR/issue description fields. Something about them feels, idk, belittling maybe?

Ours would be very minimal, so it's not as bad, but also people should be reading the contributing.md anyway. iirc Github shows a "have your read the contributing.md" for first-time submitters, maybe we can put that in the input field instead? ...But perhaps that's worse. (^:

Resolves #<N>.

Thoroughly describe the changes made.

### Related

Reference any related issues, links, papers, etc. here.
```

Tests will run automatically via GitHub Actions when you open a pull request or
push new commits to an existing pull request.

Once you've collected and addressed feedback, tests are passing, and your PR has
been approved, merge the pull request. If you properly included the "Resolves
#N." directive in the pull request description, merging will automatically close

> the tracking issue associated with the pull request.

Reviewer: Doesn't this only happen once it (eventually) gets merged into master?

Author: As part of this I'd set the default branch to develop - I think then it closes as expected

Reviewer: That feels like it might be closing too eagerly though. Mainnet people would still be experiencing the issue, naively search for it and find nothing, even though it's hidden away in closed issues. Maybe not a big deal, but worth taking into account.

Author: I think it's a setting, so we don't need it to automatically close the issue.

### Kernel Development and Pills

If you're making changes to the kernel (i.e., anything in `pkg/arvo/sys`) you
need to know about pills.

Urbit bootstraps itself from a pill (you can see it being fetched from
`bootstrap.urbit.org` on boot).  This is the compiled version of the kernel
(which you can find in the `sys` directory of [Arvo][arvo]), along with a
complete copy of the Arvo source.

The procedure for creating a pill is often called "soliding." It writes the

> compiled kernel to a file. The command to solid is:

Reviewer: fwiw I have never heard anyone say this. It's usually just "make/update a pill".

Author: +1 this was old text, I'll remove it and use more simple/normal language

[git-lfs]: https://git-lfs.github.com

Any contribution that touches the kernel (i.e., anything in `pkg/arvo/sys`),
should be accompanied by an updated [solid pill](#the-kernel-and-pills).  Pills
are tracked in the repository via [git LFS][git-lfs].

Whenever you make a contribution to the kernel, please create a new solid pill
via:

```
sh/update-solid-pill
```

> You should include the updated pill in the same commit that updates the source.

Reviewer: This seems duplicate with the sections above.

Since anything under [`pkg/arvo/sys/`][sys]) is bootstrapped from a pill, it
must be recompiled if any changes are made. This should happen automatically
when you make changes, but if it doesn't, the command to manually recompile and
install the new kernel is `|reset` in `dojo`.  This rebuilds from the `sys`
directory in the `base` desk in `%clay`.

Currently, `|reset` does not reload apps like `dojo` itself, which will still
reference the old kernel. To force them to reload, make a trivial edit to their
main source file (under the `app` directory) in `%clay`.

[arvo]: https://github.com/urbit/urbit/tree/master/pkg/arvo

> [sys]: https://github.com/urbit/urbit/tree/master/pkg/arvo/sys

Reviewer: This feels outdated. I haven't needed to be concerned about this in a long time.

Reviewer: We _may_ want to mention the ability to build pills off non-base desks though, somewher in the section above.

If, during development, you don't want to bother writing state migration logic yet, you can `|new-desk %new-base`, mount that, put the new files in there, then `+solid %new-base` to build the pill off that desk.

Author: I'm going to say the latter is out of scope (this doc is already probably too in the weeds)

## Code style

Hoon will be a less familiar language to many contributors.  We've published
some [style guidelines for Hoon][hoon], but above all you should try to mimic
the style of the code around you.  With regards to the style used throughout the
codebase: the more recently the code was written, the more standard and accepted
its style is likely to be.

## Development Environment

Although you likely have an identity on the live network, developing on the live
network is high-risk and largely unnecessary. Instead, standard practice is to
work on a fake ship. Fake ships use deterministic keys derived from the ship's
address, don't communicate on the live network, and can communicate with other
fake ships over the local loopback.

### Boot a New Fake Ship

To boot a new fake ship, pass the `-F` flag and a valid Urbit ship name to
`urbit`:

```console
$ bazel build :urbit
$ ln -s bazel-bin/pkg/vere/urbit urbit

> $ ./urbit -F <ship>

Reviewer: Wondering if we should just tell people to use `/bin/solid.pill` from this repo in the default instructions. If they're making arvo contributions, they're checking out the repo anyway, and the develop branch may have sys changes that they'll want to have loaded in. (Although, even then, the pill isn't hard-guaranteed to be up to date, they may need to copy in /pkg/arvo/sys and/or other files manually regardless...)

```

By default, booting a fake ship will use the same pre-compiled kernelspace-- a
"pill"-- that livenet ships use, which leads to a non-trivial boot time on the

> order of tens of minutes. However, using a development specific pill-- a "solid"

Reviewer: We'll stop using brass pills for mainnet boot Soon™. (;

pill-- the time to boot a new fake ship can be reduced to a few minutes.

The solid pill (and other pills) live in the [Urbit repo][urbit]. To boot using
the solid pill, download the pill and then run:

```console
$ ./urbit -F <ship> -B solid.pill
```

Instead of downloading the pill, you can also generate one yourself using
[`dojo`][dojo]:

```console
dojo> .urbit/pill +solid
```

This will write the pill to `<pier>/.urb/put/urbit.pill` (note that `<pier>` is
the ship directory), which you can then use to boot a new ship:

```console
$ ./urbit -F <another-ship> -B <pier>/.urb/put/urbit.pill

> ```

Reviewer: Somewhat duplicate with instructions above.

### Launch an Existing Fake Ship

To launch an existing fake ship, supply the pier (the ship directory), which is
simply the name of the ship[^1], to `urbit`:

```console
$ ./urbit <ship>
```

> [^1]: Unless you specify the pier using the `-c` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^1]: Unless you specified the pier name using the `-c` flag.
```
